INTRODUCTION
This report details the history of Kodak, explaining the path that brought Kodak from the worldwide leader in film sales for multiple decades to its Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2012, while offering suggestions on what Kodak should do (or should have done) to recover. This report is based off of two months of research on Eastman Kodak Company (referred to as ‘Kodak’). The research was completed by five college students and based solely off of online resources, such as company analyses and news articles. This report shall cover all of Kodak’s history up to 2012, but it shall focus on Kodak’s transition from film photography to digital photography during the 1990s and early 2000s.
Background
Eastman Kodak Co. was founded in 1892 by George Eastman with continued success for almost a century. In 1962, Kodak reached 75,000 employees and held 90 percent of the market share. At that time, Kodak was as well-known as McDonald's, Coca-Cola, and Disney, with a reliable position in the stock market [1]. Kodak was also the exclusive industry sponsor of every Summer Olympics. However, Kodak's continued success came to a halt as competition rose in the mid-1980s. In 1984 Fuji, not Kodak, was the industry sponsor for the Summer Olympics in Los Angeles. Due to protective trade regulations in Japan, Kodak could not penetrate the Japanese market while Fuji increased its presence in the American market [1]. Kodak's losses to market rivals have progressed through the present-day.
Eastman was too engrained in his film legacy that he failed to provide a reliable futuristic perspective for Kodak. Therefore, the company haphazardly shifted away from just the amateur photography industry to also participate in medicine and other industries. In 1988, Kodak's board of directors decided to buy Sterling Drug, the company known for making Lysol [1]. This added to their growing debt.
In 1975, Kodak developed the first digital camera. However, this camera was as big as a toaster oven and only produced black and white images, so Kodak stuck to the film industry. In the 1990s, Kodak finally understood the need to pursue the digital industry by pursuing the EasyShare digital camera line, an easy-to-use line of pocket cameras. However, Kodak underestimated the growth of the digital market and did not keep up [1]. As a result, Kodak was still making film while Canon and Fuji were selling better quality digital cameras for the same price as Kodak’s EasyShare.
In January 2004, Kodak announced that it would stop selling digital products in Europe and North America and was removed from the Dow Jones Industrial Average after 74 consecutive years. With this decision, Kodak cut 45,000 jobs over the following six years. Of the 24,000 employees remaining in 2009, 60 percent had been there less than four years and 80 percent of the revenue was from new products and services [2]. With such an employment shift, Kodak dealt with high restructuring costs apart from the need to develop products to appeal to the current market. On January 19, 2012, the 131-year-old American company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, which allows corporations in severe debt to reorganize into a more financially stable structure. Even so, Kodak earned enough to survive the bankruptcy with paid employees. Kodak has lost interest in the photography industry and now plans in designing printers for home and commercial use as Kodak restructures and seeks financial stability with the current market.
[remember Report Organization]
